Installation
Python is an open-source language and can be downloaded for free from the Python Web site to your computer. For most systems, you can download a working version of Python without the need for compilation, but the source code is available if you have the inclination to build Python yourself and if your computer has the necessary compilers (C and C++).
The code examples and subject matter of this course were written with Python version 3.0 in mind, but you should have no problems if you choose to download a more recent version from Python.org.
Recommended Reading
Different people naturally learn computer languages in different ways. Some people are intimidated by examples that demonstrate features they haven't learned yet, while others find that seeing such examples is the fastest way to understand those features. If you'd like to get a broad overview of most of Python's important features at the start of your learning experience, take a look at Chapter 3 in the textbook. But don't be discouraged if you find some sections confusing -- we'll sort out all the details in later modules.
If you're curious about all the things that people are doing with Python, you might want to visit the Python Package Index, a collection of Python programs that programmers have shared. One of the best ways to learn a programming language is to look at examples of other people's code, and you'll find plenty of examples there. To supplement the course textbook, there are lots of resources available, most notably Python.org's documentation section, which has links to online documentation, as well as a set of HTML documents that you can download and browse locally on your computer.
Because so much of Python's functionality is obtained through the use of modules, you should have a complete reference to the standard ones. The online documentation at Python.org contains such a reference, but for an extended hard copy version, I recommend Python Essential Reference by David M. Beazley.
Two other books that you may find useful are Learning Python by Mark Lutz and David Ascher, and Programming Python by Mark Lutz.
